#Exercises
Create a new repository on GitHub to hold your assignments for the Databases module. Create a new branch for Checkpoint 1. Submit your answers.

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

  -"A Clockwork Orange"    Answer: string
  -42                      Answer: integer
  -09/02/1945              Answer: date
  -98.7                    Answer: float
  -$15.99                  Answer: money


2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
Answer: You'd use a database when you have data that you'd like to store, update, and retrieve from that persist beyond the end of a program and can handle multiple applications accessing it at one time. A text file could be used when you want to create/store/update data like above but do not need it beyond the end of the program.


3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
Answer: SQL is a declarative versus a procedural language. When using SQL you care more about the 'what' we're looking for rather than the 'how' we want to retrieve it.


4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
Answer: Within a database system, related data is often organized into tables rather than lists. You could then access the database using an interface such as the command line.


5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
Answer: Tables are comprised of rows, columns, and values and is a collection of related data as a whole. Each row is called a *record* which represents an individual object or entity. Columns define what the value represents.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
Answer: string, integer, date

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;
     Answer: I am looking for all of the dates and amounts from the payments table.

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;
     Answer: I am looking for all of the amounts in the payments table where the amount is greater than 500.

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
     Answer: I am looking for everything in the payments table that is about 'Mega Foods'.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

  -The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
  Answer:
  SELECT email,
  FROM users
  WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

  -The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
  Answer:
  SELECT userid
  FROM users
  WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

  -All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
  Answer:
  SELECT *
  FROM users
  WHERE userid = 4;

Additional practice:

SQLCourse
HackerRank
